---
owner_slack: "#operations-engineering-alerts"
title: ADR 022 Decommission Maintenance Pages Platform
last_reviewed_on: 2025-03-04
review_in: 6 months
---

# ADR-022: Decommission Maintenance Pages Platform

## Status

✅ Accepted

## Context

The Operations Engineering team currently host a small platform built on top of the
Cloud Platform that enables teams to quickly create a simple maintenance screen for
a domain. This small platform is hosted as a GitHub Repository at
[https://github.com/ministryofjustice/cloud-platform-maintenance-pages/](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/cloud-platform-maintenance-pages/).
The application listens to various Ingress Hosts and routes these to customised views.

The purpose of the Maintenance Pages Platform is to provide teams with a standardised
maintenance page for temporary maintenance of a service or to aid when decommissioning
a service.

### Problems

#### Problem Domain Not Well Understood

Operations Engineering have not conducted any formal discoveries into the problem domain
that this platform attempts to solve. There is no evidence to support that the platform,
as is, provides value for the business or end users compared to alternative solutions.

#### Operations Engineering is Unfamiliar With The Underlying Technology

The application itself is written in Ruby using the Sinatra Web Framework. This stack
is unfamiliar to the Operations Engineering team which primarily writes in Python.

Due to this, even maintenance tasks such as updating dependencies can consume hours
of engineering time. This has also contributed to the lack of maintenance for the project.

#### Operations Engineering Do Not Have Time to Invest in The Platform

Operations Engineering are already spread fairly thin across different domains and lack
the time to invest into this problem domain at the moment. This problem domain also does
not easily fit into the core offering that Operations Engineering maintains.

### Symptoms

#### Little Engagement With The Platform

Since the platforms initial inception, 4 years ago, there has been little to no engagement
with the platform from both existing users, new users and Operations Engineering.

Since the initial on boarding of several pages, there have been no new requests for the
platforms services. This is potentially a symptom of the platform providing minimal value
compared to alternative solutions for teams, or the platform only being valuable to a small
set of users/use cases, or minimal awareness throughout the organisation of the platform
and it's services.

Operations Engineering have also not maintained the platform to ensure that it is secure,
address technical debt, and ensure the platform aligns with organisational standards due
to lack of time to invest in the platform.

## Options

### 1. Keep Maintenance Pages Platform As Is

**Pros**

- No operational changes required for current users

**Cons**

- Maintenance requirements, which is time consuming for the team
- Operations Engineering have to support technology that does not align with the team's technical skills
- Potential burden to the business in general, since there is no evidence to support the value of the platform

### 2. Invest Time Into The Problem Domain

**Pros**

- Potential to provide value to the business and users
- Potential to re-align the platform to be more easily supported by the team
- Better evidence to support the value of current or new service offerings

**Cons**

- Time consuming, meaning the team cannot focus on known higher value problem domains

### 3. Decommission Maintenance Pages Platform

**Pros**

- Enables Operations Engineering to focus on higher value problems
- Enables underlying problems in this domain to surface more naturally, which can lead to a potential new solution with less upfront investment

**Cons**

- Users of the platform may need to migrate off the platform, setting up a custom solution that they will then need to maintain

## Decision

Operations Engineering have decided on Option 3, to Decommission Maintenance Pages Platform.

We have yet to fully understand the needs, business constraints and technical constraints in this area to provide a
well-rounded solution that can meet the needs of the business and users.

Understanding all of this will take time, and require the work to be prioritised by the team. Decommissioning the current
solution will reduce the maintenance burden on the team, enabling efforts to be invested into higher priority work and
allow the appropriate time needed to fully understand the requirements before building a new solution.
